
Notes

Instead of calculating curvatures locally as in Differential Geometry we should calculate non-local statistic, describing 
the curvature of the global curve shape. Maybe by inscribing a circle to a largest nbhd, which still has error per circle length ratio within a tolerance.


Reviews of related work.
An online algorithm for matching noisy space curves with statistical error analysis, by Hyuntae Na

Algorithm 1 [1,2]
- smooth the curves with FFT
- run Douglas-Peucker algorithm to partition the curves as sequence of segments.
  The general idea is to detect contour regions having high a curvature toward the overall shape trend.
  Q:Not clear how references points are found by FMM and how they are used?
- describe each segment using Point Context descriptor and Contour Segment Shape Descriptor.
- use Hangarian method to find segment pairing of the minimal distance between segment descriptors

There must be a statistic generalizing the curvature for the corner points, so that how sharply the curve turns is expressed in the statistic.

FMM - Fast Marching Method
LPF - Low Pass Filter
FFT - Fast Fourier Transform



1. Object Representation and Matching Based on Skeletons and Curves, Christian Feinen
2. Shape Matching Using Point Context and Contour Segments, Christian Feinen, Cong Yang, Oliver Tiebe and Marcin Grzegorzek
3. Shape-based Object Matching Using Point Context, Cong Yang, Christian Feinen, Oliver Tiebe, Kimiaki Shirahama and Marcin Grzegorzek 



Algorithm 2 [1], p.2
Step A: represent every curve by a sequence of its approximate local curvatures at given sample points
    Smoothing procedure: expand the noisy curve to a narrow strip defined by a certain threshold value eps and then finds the shortest path lying in
    this 2*eps-wide strip. This gives a polygonal approximation of each observed curve.
    Curvature k(s) is the derivative of the tangent angle teta(s) to the curve, which is parametrized as a function of its arclength.
    
Step B: Find the longest common substring of the two characteristic strings
  Find the longest matching substring between these two strings using Weiner's algorithm[1, p.7],[2]
  For a given K use the algorithm of Karp, Miller and Rosenberg (see [3]) to find the K longest matching substrings between the two characteristic
  strings. [1,p.8]
  Or sorting string of curvatures by value and matching the substring starting with similar curvature values maintaing an accumulator of hits proportional 
  to the length of the matching substrings.
Step C: find rotation/translation for the matched subcurves.

1. On Curve Matching, Haim Wolfson, 1986
2. Linear Pattern Matching ALgorithms by Peter Weiner
3. Rapid Identification of Repeated Patterns in Strings, Trees and Arrays by Karp, Miller and Rosenberg


Algorithm 3
See C:\Users\Sam\Downloads\CurveMatching\Curvature Scale Space

- Convolve each of curve coordinates with a Gaussian function, while increasing the width of the Gaussian kernel, 
  to build the curvature scale space (CSS) k(u, sigma), where u is curve parameter, sigma is the Gaussian parameter, 
- find zero crossings of the curvature at different scales, which are (u,sigma) such that the curvature k(u,sigma)=0,
  thus constructing "CSS image"
- Following the "CSS image" maxima extraction ((u,sigma) where sigma is maximal), the CSS matching algorithm compares 
  two sets of maxima and assigns a matching value to them.

Comment: curves with straight line parts have a lot of curvature zero-crossing, which makes the zero-crossing statistic doubtful

1. AFFINE INVARIANT CURVE MATCHING USING NORMALIZATION AND CURVATURE SCALE-SPACE V. Giannekou, P. Tzouveli, Y. Avrithis and S.Kollias
2. Curvature scale space image in shape similarity retrieval, Sadegh Abbasi, Farzin Mokhtarian, Josef Kittler


Algorithm 4

- present the sequence of point curves as a parametric non-rational B-spline
- compute geometric invariants: 
  angles between three consecutive spline coefficient vectors;
  product of two distances computed between three consecutive spline coefficient vectors
  dot product of two vectors formed by three consecutive spline coefficient vectors
- match the invariants along the curves

1. Curve Shape Matching and Difference Detection, Jarmo Pirhonen, 1996


Algorithm 5

The osculating plane of a curve varies from point to point and induces a homography between the views of the same curve.

In the short baseline case:
- for an edge point (edgel)x  of the contour chain c1 find the epipolar line on the second image l2=F*x;
- find the point x2 on the epipolar line l2 which is on the matched edge and which neighbourhood best correlates with the neighbourhood of x;

In the wide (large) baseline case:
- calculate curvatures of the corresponding curves;
- calculate osculating planes (using previously calculated curvatures to remove ambiguities) and homographies for each point of the curves;
- calculate the neighbourhood cross-correlation of corresponding points;

1. The geometry and matching of curves in multiple views, Schmid Zisserman, 1998



Algorithm 6

The algorithm looks for vector fields u(x,t) and reparametrization eta(s) which define deformations of the curve A  at t=0 to match the curbe B at t=1.
t is the parameter of morphing, s is the parameter of the curve.
The solution is found as a minimum of a functional defined on the vector fields u(x,t)

1. The variational particle-mesh method for matching curves, C J Cotter, 2009



Algorithm 7

Frechet distance D(f,g) between curves f and g is defined as 
D(f,g)=inf (by alpha, beta) max(by t) Dp(f(alpha(t)),g(beta(t))), where alpha, beta are reprametrization of the curves, 0<=t<=1, 
Dp is distance under Lp norm
The algorithm does not consider matching when one curve is a rotation and/or translation of another curve.

1. Exact Algorithms for Partial Curve Matching via the Frechet Distance, Kevin Buchin, Maike Buchiny, Yusu Wang, 2008+


Algorithm 8

A shape descriptor is calculated for each point of a shape. It describes a coarse distribution of the rest of the shape with respect to a given point.
Example of a possible shape descriptor is the ordered set of vectors originating at a shape point to all other points on a shape.
Rather than using a set of vectors, the algorithm calculates a histogram describing the distribution of the vectors.
Hi(k) = # {Q != Pi: Q-Pi is at the bin(k) }
The histogram is defined to be the shape context of Pi. The vectors are considered in the log-polar space.
Chi-square statistic is used to compare the histograms: C(Pi,Qj) = 1/2*sum(k=1,K,(Hi(k)-Hj(k))^2/(Hi(k)+Hj(k)))
In addition to the shape context the cost C(Pi,Qi) can include the local appearance similarity statistics, such as 
correlation score between patches surrounding Pi and Qj.
The assignment (bipartite matching) problem to find a permutation {Pi}=>{Qj} can be solved by the Hungarian or other methods.
The authors use the deterministic annealing for the bipartite matching.
Annealing is a process of first heating then cooling a system with attempt to bring it to the lower energy state [2]
Simulated annealing simulates the annealing process of an interconnected system of nodes, each of which can have states +1, -1.
Deterministic annealing [2] allows a node state to take an analog value -1 <= s <=1 rather than just -1 and +1.
After finding the correspondences (Pi,Qj), they are used to calculate Thin Plate Spline model, extending the transformation of 
the shape points to arbitrary points.
A set of prototype objects is used to classify a shape object using the nearest neighbour classifier.

1. Shape Matching and Object Recognition Using Shape Contexts, Belongie, Malik, Puzicha, 2002
2. Pattern classification, Duda, Hart, Stork, 2nd ed, 2001


Algorithm

- Contours of objects are extracted and extracted from the image and syntactic representation is contructed whose primitives 
are line segments and whose attribites are length and absolute orientation.

String comparison algorithms [45,28,17].
Constructing for each curve a cascade of representations at different scales [3][30],[43]

1. Flexible Syntactic Matching of Curves and its Application to Automatic Hierarchical Classification of Silhouettes, Gdalyahu, Weinshall, 1999
3. Asada H., Brady M. The curvature primal sketch, PAMI, 1986
17. Gregor J, Thomason M. Dynamic programming alignment of sequences representing cyclic Patterns, PAMI, 1993
28. Marzal A, Vidal, E. Computation of normalized edit distance and applications, PAMI, 1993
30. Mokhtarian, F, Makworth A. Scale-based description and recognition of planar curves and two-dimensional shapes. PAMI, 1986
43. Ueda N, Suzuki S. Learning visual modesl from shape contours using multiscale convex/concave structure matching. PAMI, 1993
45. Wang Y, Pavlidis T. Optimal correspondence of string subsequences, PAMI, 1990



Algorithm

The algorithm approximates the optimal relative matching between two curves based on differential properties of the curves.
Freeform surface means not having rigid radial dimensions, unlike regular surfaces such as planes, cylinders and conic surfaces [2].
Freeform curves and surfaces are those whose shapes are more complicated and not describable using common terms like "circular" or "parabolic" [3].

1. Matching of Freeform Curves, Cohen, Elber, Bar-Yehuda, 1995(?)
2. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freeform_surface_modelling
3. https://people.eecs.ku.edu/~miller/Courses/IntroToCurvesAndSurfaces/page2.html


Algorithm

The algorithm prefers to work with an edge map, which only consists of closed contours to begin with.
A shape descriptor used by the algorithm is the sequence of tangent angles.
Each of matched shapes is represented as N arclength parameters (ui <--> vj)
The probability that two points match can be decomposed into two components,
one for their similarity, and one for the local stretch of the curve:

Elsewhere an object class is represented by a collection of smaller visual stimuli, either linked by a
confiuration model ("part-based models") [8,36], or without using the relative position information ("bag-of-features models") [25,40].

1. Object Detection by Global Contour Shape, Konrad Schindler, David Suter , 2008
8. M. C. Burl, M. Weber, and P. Perona. A probabilistic approach to object recognition using local photometry and global geometry.In Proc. 5th European
Conference on Computer Vision, Freiburg, Germany, 1998.
25 D. Lowe. Object recognition from local scale-invariant features. In Proc. 7th International Conference on Computer Vision, Kerkyra, Greece, 1999.
36. E. Sali and S. Ullman. Combining class-specic fragments for object classification. In Proc. 10th British Machine Vision Conference, Nottingham,
UK, 1999.
40 J. Sivic and A. Zisserman. Video Google: A text retrieval approach to object matching in videos.In Proc. 9th International Conference on Computer Vision,
Nice, France, 2003.



Algorithm

Other approaches convert the curves to strings of points and use the dynamic programming for string-to-string correction algorithm to find 
a match with the shortest edit distance.
To find a true continuous solution of a discretized problem of matching two curves, the FMM assigns an underlying differential equation 
to the problem. (There are other ways to extend the problem to the continuous domain, for example, the curve reconstruction by 
convolution with the Gaussian or the sinc kernels).


1. Curve Matching Using the Fast Marching Method, Max Frenkel and Ronen Basri, 2003




1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
Curves Matching Using Geodesic Paths
Curve Matching for Open 2D Curves 2009.PRL.Ming.CurveMatching2d.Preprint


STEREO MATCHING OF CURVES
Shape Band A Deformable Object Detection Approach
Shape-based Object Detection via Boundary Structure Segmentation
